ColumnTransposeKey: 264573810 | VigenereKey: charlie

plaintext:

All the women, or rather the witches, were now sitting motionless in their chairs and staring as though hypnotized at
somebody who had suddenly appeared on the platform. That somebody was another woman. The first thing I noticed about
this woman was her size. She was tiny, probably no more than four and a half feet tall. She looked quite young, I
guessed about twenty-five or six, and she was very pretty. She had on a rather stylish long black dress that reached
right to the ground, and she wore black gloves that came up to her elbows. Unlike the others, she wasn't wearing a hat.
She didn't look to me like a witch at all, but she couldn't possibly not be one, otherwise what on earth was she doing
up here on the platform and why for heaven's sake were all the other witches gazing at her with such a mixture of
adoration, awe, and fear?

Very slowly, the young lady on the platform raised her hands to her face. I saw her gloved fingers un-hooking something
behind her ears, and then, then she caught hold of her cheeks and lifted her face clean away. The whole of that pretty
face came away in her hands. It was a mask. As she took off the mask, she turned sideways and placed it carefully upon
a small table near by. And when she turned round again and faced us, I very nearly screamed out loud. That face of hers
was the most frightful and frightening thing I have ever seen. Just looking at it gave me the shakes all over. It was
so crumpled and wizened, so shrunken and shrivelled, it looked as though it had been pickled in vinegar. It was a
fearsome and ghastly sight. There was something terribly wrong with it, something foul and putrid and decayed. It seemed
 quite literally to be rotting away at the edges and in the middle of the face around the mouth and cheeks I could see
 the skin all cankered and worm-eaten as though maggots were working away in there.

There are times when something is so frightful you become mesmerized by it and can't look away. I was like that now.
I was transfixed. I was numbed. I was magnetized by the sheer horror of this woman's features. But there was more to
it than that. There was a look of serpents in those eyes of hers as they flashed around the audience.
I knew immediately, of course, that this was none other than the Grand High Witch herself. I knew also why she had
worn a mask. She could never have moved around in public, let alone booked in at an hotel, with her real face.
Everyone who saw her would have run away screaming.

The doors! shouted the Grand High Witch in a voice that filled the room and bounced around the walls.
Are they chained and bolted?

The doors are chained and bolted, your Grandness, answered a voice in the audience.

The brilliant snake eyes that were set so deep in that dreadful rotting worm-eaten face glared un-blinkingly at the
witches who sat facing her. You mayrrrreeeemof yourrrrrglovessssss, she shouted. Her voice I noticed had that same
hard metallic quality as the voice of the witch I had met under the conker tree, only it was far louder and much, much
harsher. It rasped it grated it snarled it scraped it shrieked and it growled. Everyone in the room was peeling off her
gloves. I was watching the hands of those in the back row. I wanted very much to see what their fingers looked like and
whether my grandmother had been right. Ah, yes, I could see several of them now. I could see the brown claws curving
over the tips of the fingers. They were about two inches long, those claws, and sharp at the ends.